Hey guys welcome back.
Now we spent the last few lectures of this SCA section of the course discussing the on page factors
such as pieces of code you can use to make your page rank higher for the terms you're using.
Specifically we mentioned title tags headers and an other formatting code you can use like bullets lists
and unordered lists.
Well nothing is more on page than the text on the page.
While there are a lot of ranking factors you could consider the quality of your content you're providing
is really to be the most important factor.
You think about it all these other things like filling in HMO tags and using headers to structure content.
It's really all irrelevant when it comes to how good the actual content is.
Right.
Well we use this code to help pages look better and to help search engines better understand the content
but the better your stuff is well the easier it will be for humans and search engines to consume it.
Use it and therefore you know the Google God will figure that out and move it up.
So in other words running SE or friendly content really just means writing user friendly content.
So this lecture going go through some of the best practices you can use to make your writing as user
friendly as friendly as possible.
First off I want to talk about word count and we didn't mention is a little bit back in Content Marketing
now there been studies done that show that longer posts have a better chance at ranking higher on the
R.P. than shorter content.
A group called the R.P. IQ did an analysis in the top 10 ranking results on Google for various terms
and found that the top 6 results all averaged more than twenty three hundred words.
All ten averaged well over like 2000.
So generally experts must agree right that using 2000 words in a post is ideal and maybe it's even better
if it's longer right.
Well no there's actually no agreement on this.
There are plenty of posts that are 600 words long for example that rank really well for certain terms.
Well some companies on the other hand are going but by writing the pieces that are 5000 words or longer
and those are also performing well.
So the question is who in this situation is right.
Well probably both really all comes down to what you're writing about and who your audience is.
If your audience is a well-educated bunch of engineers you need lots of detail maybe 5000 words in a
post is best for them but for business marketers for example looking for tips on a speed up and on you
know an automated process and three easy steps.
We don't have all the time in the world to read thousands of words.
They need something quick and clear and accurate.
So we're accounts are actually going to vary based on what you're looking for.
Generally speaking when you look at search results you'll find that longer ones are up front.
However depending on what you're searching for the range could be wildly different.
We could be talking a difference of 200 words and all the posts or 500 words to 700.
Or are you talking about the differences.
You know 5000 to 6000.
Just consider what information people might be looking for what they might need and what would be most
helpful.
Now regardless of how long your post might be or who it's meant for each time you write you should always
think about the structure of your piece before you write it and it doesn't how long it might be.
How will the information be organized.
What kind of sections will it include or process.
Will it explain the writing a post for a cake recipe Let's say you want to give a short intro list the
ingredients then provide the steps in order so that the reader can follow along.
If you're running an opinion piece he might introduce the issue provide your take on it and then include
arguments to prove your point by figuring out how your piece will be structured.
You can also take advantage of those Hetter and list tax was discussed in the previous lecture figuring
out your sections and subsections makes it a whole lot easier decide where to put your tags to organize
sections and content.
Now how's this all sound so far.
Quality content counts most workouts going to vary.
Consider your audience and the structure of your piece.
In general longer pieces do better but that's within a range determined by what you're searching for
and who's looking for it.
The end of the day it all comes down to whether or not people are happy with what you write.
Anyway let's take a break here and cover some more tips in the next lecture.